I538 workspace admin-> servers (#540)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/workspace-admin/servers.adoc

[id="what-are-servers"]
== What are servers?

A server defines the protocol port of a process that runs in a machine. It has a name, path, and attributes. The path defines the base path of the service that is used by the server. Attributes are optional and can be used to tune the server or for identification.  You can add a server when you need to access a process in your workspace machine. 

> To add a server, use the `User Dashboard` or edit the workspace machine configuration YAML file.

Reviewer: GUI item in bold, not mono:

```suggestion
To add a server, use the *User Dashboard* or edit the workspace machine configuration YAML file.
```

}
----

> The following is an example of the `User Dashboard`:

Reviewer: GUI
```suggestion
The following is an example of the *User Dashboard*:
```

image::workspaces/servers_dashboard.png[]

[NOTE]
====
If your workspace is running, saving a new server restarts the workspace.
====

[id="preview-urls"]
== Preview URLs

> Adding the server with port 3000, does not mean you can use this port to access a server. Each server is assigned a URL when a workspace is running. In the case of Docker, port 3000 is published to a random port from the ephemeral port range from 32768 to 65535. In the case of OpenShift, a route bound to a service is created. Routes are persistent URLS, while the server URLS provided in the Docker implementation of Che change every time you start a workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding the server with port 3000 does not mean you can use this port to access a server. Each server is assigned a URL when a workspace is running.

* On Docker, port 3000 is published to a random port from the ephemeral port range from 32768 to 65535. The server URLs change every time you start a workspace.
* On OpenShift, a route bound to a service is created. Routes are persistent URLs.
```

[id="getting-preview-urls"]
== Getting preview URLs

In this example, you added a server with port 3000 and started a workspace. The following are ways to get the server's preview URL:

> * Use a link:commands-ide-macro.html[macro] a command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use a link:commands-ide-macro.html[macro] command.
```

> * In the IDE, Click `+` icon in the bottom panel under the editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the IDE, Click the `+` icon in the bottom panel under the editor.
```

image::workspaces/servers.png[]

> * In the `User Dashboard`, Click *Workspaces > YourWorkspace > Servers* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the *User Dashboard*, click *Workspaces > YourWorkspace > Servers*.
```

> You can also see internal servers URLs.  Internal servers launch when the workspace container or pod is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also see internal server URLs. Internal servers launch when the workspace container or pod is available.
```

[id="exposing-internal-servers"]
== Exposing internal servers

> If the port must be accessed internally within the workspace, expose it internally, but do not make it publicly accessible. For example, a database server is exposed only for the web application and because of security concerns it should not be accessible publicly. The database server is exposed as internal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access a port internally within a workspace, expose it internally, but do not make it publicly accessible. For example, a database server is exposed only for the web application and because of security concerns, it should not be accessible publicly. The database server is exposed as internal.
```

}
----

The following describes the attributes:

> * `secure` - indicates whether the server is exposed as secure. The default value is `False`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`secure`:: Indicates whether the server is exposed as secure. The default value is `false`.
```

> * `unsecuredPaths` - configures the secure servers. It contains a comma-separated list of URLs which are considered non-secure on the given server and can be accessible without the token. It may be needed when the server provides any public APIs. The API endpoint for health checks is an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`unsecuredPaths`:: Configures the secure servers. It contains a comma-separated list of URLs that are considered non-secure on the given server and can be accessible without a token. It may be needed when the server provides any public APIs. The API endpoint for health checks is an example.
```

> * `cookiesAuthEnabled` - indicates whether the token is searched in the cookies. By default it is disabled. You can enable this attribute if you are sure that servers cannot be attacked by Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) or has special protection from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cookiesAuthEnabled`:: Indicates whether cookies should be searched for a token. By default, it is disabled. You can enable this attribute if you are sure that servers cannot be attacked by Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) or have special protection from it.
```
